k8s_aws_setup/README.md, before:

## Launching a K8s Cluster from an EC2 Instance

### Setup

* [Make an Amazon EC2 Key Pair](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-services-ec2-keypairs.html#displaying-a-key-pair)
* Make an IAM Role:
	* Trusted Entity: AWS Service
	* Use case: EC2
	* Policies: AdministratorAccess


### Launch an EC2 Instance:

* Ubuntu Server 20.04 LTS (HVM), SSD Volume Type - ami-0dba2cb6798deb6d8 (64-bit x86)
* Instance Type: t2.medium
* Configuration Instance Details: Default, except add the IAM role from above.
* On launch, add the key pair made above

### Connect to the EC2 Instance
Now connect to the instance:  

* ec2_key.pem is th PEM file associated with the Amazon EC2 Key Pair you made above.
* xx.xxx.xxx.xxx is Public IPv4 address of the EC2 instance. 

```
ssh -i ./ec2_key.pem ubuntu@xx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```

### Setup Environment of Instance

The following code snippet will run [this script](https://github.com/npa02012/blog_posts/blob/master/k8s_aws_setup/resources/ubuntu_setup.sh), which installs awscli, Oracle JDK, Docker, kOps, kubectl and Spark.

```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/npa02012/blog_posts/master/k8s_aws_setup/resources/ubuntu_setup.sh
chmod +x ubuntu_setup.sh
yes Yes | ./ubuntu_setup.sh
```

Useful related links:  

* [Installing Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)  
* [Installing kOps and kubectl](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/install.md)

### Define Environment Variables

```shell
export S3_BUCKET_NAME=npa02012-k8s-state
export KOPS_STATE_STORE=s3://$S3_BUCKET_NAME
export CLUSTER_NAME=npa02012.k8s.local
```
Note: *KOPS\_STATE\_STORE* tells kOps where to store the cluster's configuration files. After creating the cluster, there is now a folder in my S3 bucket named *npa02012.k8s.local/* with the configuration files.

### Setup an S3 Bucket:
You only have to do this once:

```shell
aws s3api create-bucket --bucket $S3_BUCKET_NAME --region us-east-1
```

### Create a Cluster Configuration

```shell
kops create cluster --zones=us-east-1a ${CLUSTER_NAME}
```

Note: We use [kOps Gossip DNS](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/gossip.md) to avoid having to setup an external DNS. To use, Gossip DNS, we end the cluster domain name in *.k8s.local*.  


### Get the Cluster Running

The *create cluster* command will not build the cluster. There may be a flag you can add to do so; I instead used the following command to get it running:

```shell
kops update cluster ${CLUSTER_NAME} --yes
```

### Check that the Cluster is Running

After a few minutes, the cluster should be running. Check by running the following:


```shell
kubectl get nodes

Out:
-------------------------
NAME                            STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-172-20-41-34.ec2.internal    Ready    node     15m   v1.18.10
ip-172-20-47-154.ec2.internal   Ready    master   16m   v1.18.10
ip-172-20-62-58.ec2.internal    Ready    node     15m   v1.18.10
```  

[This article](https://brunocalza.me/2017/03/14/getting-started-with-kubernetes-on-aws/) provides some interesting insight into what kOps is doing behind the scenes, see the **Creating a cluster** section.

### Delete the Cluster

Finally we can delete the cluster by running the following:  

```shell
kops delete cluster --name ${CLUSTER_NAME} --yes
```

Note: This will delete the cluster configuration files in the S3 bucket.


### Next Steps

[This post](https://github.com/npa02012/blog_posts/tree/master/spark_on_k8s) outlines the steps for executing an example Spark job on the K8s cluster.

Commit message:

split out env var setup

k8s_aws_setup/README.md, after:

## Launching a K8s Cluster from an EC2 Instance

### Setup

* [Make an Amazon EC2 Key Pair](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-services-ec2-keypairs.html#displaying-a-key-pair)
* Make an IAM Role:
	* Trusted Entity: AWS Service
	* Use case: EC2
	* Policies: AdministratorAccess


### Launch an EC2 Instance:

* Ubuntu Server 20.04 LTS (HVM), SSD Volume Type - ami-0dba2cb6798deb6d8 (64-bit x86)
* Instance Type: t2.medium
* Configuration Instance Details: Default, except add the IAM role from above.
* On launch, add the key pair made above

### Connect to the EC2 Instance
Now connect to the instance:  

* ec2_key.pem is th PEM file associated with the Amazon EC2 Key Pair you made above.
* xx.xxx.xxx.xxx is Public IPv4 address of the EC2 instance. 

```
ssh -i ./ec2_key.pem ubuntu@xx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```

### Setup Environment of Instance

The following code snippet will run [these scripts](https://github.com/npa02012/blog_posts/blob/master/k8s_aws_setup/resources), which install awscli, Oracle JDK, Docker, kOps, kubectl and Spark, as well as do other environment setup.

```
# Ubuntu Setup
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/npa02012/blog_posts/master/k8s_aws_setup/resources/ubuntu_setup.sh
chmod +x ubuntu_setup.sh
yes Yes | ./ubuntu_setup.sh

# Env variable setup
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/npa02012/blog_posts/master/k8s_aws_setup/resources/var_setup.sh
chmod +x var_setup.sh
source var_setup.sh
```

Useful related links:  

* [Installing Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)  
* [Installing kOps and kubectl](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/install.md)

### Define Environment Variables

```shell
export S3_BUCKET_NAME=npa02012-k8s-state
export KOPS_STATE_STORE=s3://$S3_BUCKET_NAME
export CLUSTER_NAME=npa02012.k8s.local
```
Note: *KOPS\_STATE\_STORE* tells kOps where to store the cluster's configuration files. After creating the cluster, there is now a folder in my S3 bucket named *npa02012.k8s.local/* with the configuration files.

### Setup an S3 Bucket:
You only have to do this once:

```shell
aws s3api create-bucket --bucket $S3_BUCKET_NAME --region us-east-1
```

### Create a Cluster Configuration

```shell
kops create cluster --zones=us-east-1a ${CLUSTER_NAME}
```

Note: We use [kOps Gossip DNS](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/gossip.md) to avoid having to setup an external DNS. To use, Gossip DNS, we end the cluster domain name in *.k8s.local*.  


### Get the Cluster Running

The *create cluster* command will not build the cluster. There may be a flag you can add to do so; I instead used the following command to get it running:

```shell
kops update cluster ${CLUSTER_NAME} --yes
```

### Check that the Cluster is Running

After a few minutes, the cluster should be running. Check by running the following:


```shell
kubectl get nodes

Out:
-------------------------
NAME                            STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-172-20-41-34.ec2.internal    Ready    node     15m   v1.18.10
ip-172-20-47-154.ec2.internal   Ready    master   16m   v1.18.10
ip-172-20-62-58.ec2.internal    Ready    node     15m   v1.18.10
```  

[This article](https://brunocalza.me/2017/03/14/getting-started-with-kubernetes-on-aws/) provides some interesting insight into what kOps is doing behind the scenes, see the **Creating a cluster** section.

### Delete the Cluster

Finally we can delete the cluster by running the following:  

```shell
kops delete cluster --name ${CLUSTER_NAME} --yes
```

Note: This will delete the cluster configuration files in the S3 bucket.


### Next Steps

[This post](https://github.com/npa02012/blog_posts/tree/master/spark_on_k8s) outlines the steps for executing an example Spark job on the K8s cluster.
